+++
title = "NorthSec 2023 - A LAN party for hackers"
tags = [
    "career",
    "ctf"
]
date = "2023-05-20"
toc = true
+++

# What is NorthSec? 

NorthSec is a security conference in Montreal, QC, Canada that has been running since 2013. In addition to fantastic technical talks, awesome badges, and _free beer_ (yes, really), they have one of the largest in-person CTF events on earth.

This year's event saw ~1,500 attendees for the conference/talks, and 700+ for the in-person CTF event.

Somewhat unique, at least in my conference experience, much of the content in the talks at North Sec is _highly_ technical. For example, one of the standing-room-only talks this year was by [MrUn1k0d3r](https://twitter.com/MrUn1k0d3r) walking through better ways to avoid EDR/AV detection through understanding some of the subtleties of compiler optimization of otherwise obfuscated code (and I probably haven't accurately outlined that as it's new to me). Other talks included deep dives around malware groups, reverse engineering, red teaming, and some great tales of exploitation.

I also [did a talk at this year's event](https://www.youtube.com/live/ge67z-YxjIA?feature=share&t=27128), though not technically focused.

# The venue

NorthSec, this year, was on the upper and lower levels of Marche Bonsecours in Old Port, Montreal. This is a picturescue location, super close to many restaurants, hotels, and attractions. While it's a bit of a pricey trip ($1500-2000 CAD for train/hotel/conference/food), it's such a "full" trip that it feels worthwhile even if the conference isn't your main focus.

# The CTF

I was only able to attend the CTF for about 6 hours of its 48 hour runtime, but that was enough to take in a good amount of its scope.

This year's event provided each team with their own domain, complete with *hundreds* of challenges across dozens of machines and every family of challenges you can think of.

I can't share any details as the event is still going on, however I can share that I was only able to solve ~8 challenges in the few hours I was there, and they were primarily aimed at folks newer to the CTF world. I appreciate that nSec has these, despite being otherwise known for having some of the hardest challenges in any event. 

I guess with a team of 60+ people building challenges they're in a great spot to be able to cater to many skill levels!

# My takeaways

I had opportunities to meet up with folks at the top of their field and learned a tremendous amount in the < 72 hours that I was in Montreal.

I attended talks about reverse engineering, privacy, red teaming, exploiting SaaS platforms, supply chain attacks, and investigations around ecrime/ransomware groups. I also had a chance to sit in on a CTF workshop where I picked up some great introductory skills for pwn challenges - an area that I'm otherwise a complete novice in.

The staff, attendees, and speakers were all wonderful to chat and collab with. I'll definitely be back next year, and I hope to see you there too!
